1.  Because the Administration Console is linked to a domain, until you create a domain, the Administration Console does not exist. When you create a domain, by default, a single Admin Server is created for you. It’s the Admin Server that runs the web-based Administration Console that enables you to manage the entire domain. Thus, you must first start the Admin Server before you can access the Administration Console. Once you create a domain , you can access the Administration Console at the default port 7001, but you can also assign it any other free port number

2. Security Roles: Admin, Deployer, Monitor, Operator

3.  From the Administration Console’s Change Center, you can lock a domain’s configuration while you’re changing any configuration attributes. By default, the Change Center is always enabled when you run a server in production mode and disabled in development mode. To make permanent configuration changes from the Administration Console, you must first obtain a lock, make your changes, and then activate them. By doing so, other accounts are prevented from making changes during your edit session, preventing conflicting or overlapping configuration changes

In development mode, the domain configuration locking feature is disabled by default; that is, the Automatically Acquire Lock And Activate Changes property is enabled. Automatic locking means you don’t have to acquire a lock explicitly on the domain configuration before making any changes to it. In the top-left corner of the Administration Console, you’ll see the following note:
“Configuration editing is enabled. 
Future changes will automatically be activated as you modify, add or delete items in this domain.” This means that when you make and save a configuration change, it’s automatically activated. This is fine for a development environment, but for a production environment, you should always enable the locking feature. In fact, when you run the server in production mode, you don’t have the option to set up automatic acquisition of configuration locks and activation of changes. The Automatically Acquire Lock And Activate Changes property is exclusive to servers running in development mode